### JS 小问题

### Object constructor

> `{...}` snytax let us create one object. Why need constructor(new operator)? 

To implement reusable object creation code. That can be done using constructor functions and the "new" operator. 

Now if we want to create other users, we can call new User("Ann"), new User("Alice") and so on. Much shorter than using literals every time, and also easy to read.

### Constructor vs regular function

constructor technically are regular functions. Two conventions: 
1. named with capital letter first
2. should be executed only with "new" operator

Technically, any function (except arrow functions, as they don’t have this) can be used as a constructor. It can be run with new, and it will execute the algorithm above. (The “capital letter first” is a common agreement, to make it clear that a function is to be run with new.)

### What happened when a function is called with "new" operator

1. this = {};
2. function body executed. Usually it modifies this, adds new properties 
3. value of "this" is returned

```js
function User(name) {
  // this = {};  (implicitly)

  // add properties to this
  this.name = name;
  this.isAdmin = false;

  // return this;  (implicitly)
}
let user = new User("Jack");
// user = {
//   name: "Jack",
//   isAdmin: false
// };

```

### 一次性constructor (encapsulate the code )
This constructor can’t be called again, because it is not saved anywhere, just created and called.

```js
// create a function and immediately call it with new
let user = new function() {
  this.name = "John";
  this.isAdmin = false;
};
```

### constructor mode test
怎么判断一个function is called with "new", in construction mode / without "new", regular mode? 

```js
function User() {
  alert(new.target);
}

// without "new":
User(); // undefined

// with "new":
new User(); // function User { ... }
```

### 都转换成constructor call
```js
function User(name) {
  if (!new.target) { // if you run me without new
    return new User(name); // ...I will add new for you
  }

  this.name = name;
}

let john = User("John"); // redirects call to new User
alert(john.name); // John
```

### return in constructor

- If return is called with an object, then the object is returned instead of this.
- If return is called with a primitive, it’s ignored.


### Object keys: String vs Symbol: What’s the benefit of using Symbol("id") over a string "id"?
Symbols allow us to create “hidden” properties of an object, that no other part of code can accidentally access or overwrite.
Symbol cannot be auto-converted to String. 

```js
let id = Symbol("id");
alert(id.toString()); // Symbol(id), now it works
alert(id.description); // id
```
Example 1: As user objects belongs to another code, and that code also works with them, we shouldn’t just add any fields to it. That’s unsafe. But a symbol cannot be accessed accidentally, the third-party code probably won’t even see it, so it’s probably all right to do.

Example 2: Also, imagine that another script wants to have its own identifier inside user, for its own purposes. That may be another JavaScript library, so that the scripts are completely unaware of each other.

There will be no conflict between our and their identifiers, because symbols are always different, even if they have the same name. But if we used a string "id" instead of a symbol for the same purpose, then there would be a conflict.

```js 
// ...
const user = {name: "John"};
let id = Symbol("id");
user[id] = "Their id value";
```

Technically, ==symbols are not 100% hidden==. There is a built-in method Object.getOwnPropertySymbols(obj) that allows us to get all symbols. `[Symbol(id)]`

Also there is a method named Reflect.ownKeys(obj) that returns all keys of an object including symbolic ones.`['name', Symbol(id)]`

### Symbol will be skipped by for...in loop, but Object.assign copies both string and symbol properties
Object.keys(user) also ignores them. That’s a part of the general “hiding symbolic properties” principle.

```js 
let id = Symbol("id");
let user = {
  [id]: 123
};
let clone = Object.assign({}, user);
alert( clone[id] ); // 123
```

### What is global symbol registry
We can create symbols in it and access them later, and it guarantees that repeated accesses by the same name return exactly the same symbol.

That call checks the global registry, and if there’s a symbol described as key, then returns it, otherwise creates a new symbol Symbol(key) and stores it in the registry by the given key.

```js
// read from the global registry
let id = Symbol.for("id"); // if the symbol did not exist, it is created

// read it again (maybe from another part of the code)
let idAgain = Symbol.for("id");

// the same symbol
alert( id === idAgain ); // true

Symbol.keyFor(idAgain); // "id" keyFor 只对global的管用

let localSymbol = Symbol("name");
alert( localSymbol.description ); // name
```

### Object's toString and valueOf
By default, a plain object has following toString and valueOf methods:

- The toString method returns a string "[object Object]".
- The valueOf method returns the object itself.

```js
let user = {name: "John"};
alert(user); // [object Object]
alert(user.valueOf() === user); // true
```

### Types and primitives
除了Object 以外的type 都是：
- Null
- Undefined
- Number
- Bigint
- Boolean
- String
- Symbol

```js
typeof null; // "object"
typeof undefined; // "undefined"
typeof 0; // "number" (`typeof NaN` is also "number")
typeof true; // "boolean"
typeof "foo"; // "string"
typeof {}; // "object"
typeof function () {}; // "function"
typeof []; // "object"
typeof Symbol(); // "symbol"
typeof 20n; // "bigint"
```

### Object-to-primitive conversion

The object-to-primitive conversion is called automatically by many built-in functions and operators that expect a primitive as a value.

There are 3 types (hints) of it:

- "string" (for alert and other operations that need a string)
- "number" (for maths)
- "default" (few operators)
The specification describes explicitly which operator uses which hint. There are very few operators that “don’t know what to expect” and use the "default" hint. Usually for built-in objects "default" hint is handled the same way as "number", so in practice the last two are often merged together.

The conversion algorithm is:

1. Call `obj[Symbol.toPrimitive](hint)` if the method exists,
2. Otherwise if hint is "string"
- try obj.toString() and obj.valueOf(), whatever exists.
3. Otherwise if hint is "number" or "default"
- try obj.valueOf() and obj.toString(), whatever exists.
In practice, it’s often enough to implement only obj.toString() as a “catch-all” method for string conversions that should return a “human-readable” representation of an object, for logging or debugging purposes.

### Number syntactic sugar

Internally, a number is represented in ==64-bit format IEEE-754==, so there are exactly 64 bits to store a number: ==52 of them are used to store the digits, 11 of them store the position of the decimal point (they are zero for integer numbers), and 1 bit is for the sign==.

```js
let billion = 1000000000;
billion = 1_000_000_000;
billion = 1e9;  // 1 billion, literally: 1 and 9 zeroes
billion = 7.3e9; // 7.3 billions (same as 7300000000 or 7_300_000_000)

let mсs = 0.000001;
let mcs = 1e-6; // six zeroes to the left from 1
// -6 divides by 1 with 6 zeroes
1.23e-6 === 1.23 / 1000000; // 0.00000123
```

Hexadecimal numbers 0x
```js
alert( 0xff ); // 255
alert( 0xFF ); // 255 (the same, case doesn't matter)
```

Binary numbers 0b
```js
let a = 0b11111111; // binary form of 255
```

Octal number 0o
```js
let b = 0o377; // octal form of 255
alert( a == b ); // true, the same number 255 at both sides
```

Two dots to call a method
 If we want to call a method directly on a number, like toString in the example above, then we need to place two dots .. after it.
```js
123..toString(); // "123"
(123456).toString(36) // "123456"
123.566.toString(); // "123.566"
```

### Number rounding 
- 向下取整 Math.floor <--------
Rounds down: 3 becomes 3; 3.1 becomes 3;  3.5 becomes 3; and -1.1 becomes -2;

- 向上取整 Math.ceil -------->
Rounds up: 3 becomes 3; 3.1 becomes 4;  3.5 becomes 4; and -1.1 becomes -1;

- 四舍五入 Math.round 
Rounds to the nearest integer: 3 becomes 3; 3.1 becomes 3;  3.5 rounds up to 4 too; 3.6 becomes 4; 

- 只保留整数 Math.trunc (IE不支持)
3 becomes 3; 3.1 becomes 3;  3.5 becomes 3; and -1.1 becomes -1;

#### 有精度的rounding
For instance, we have 1.2345 and want to round it to 2 digits, getting only 1.23.

- 先乘后除 
==若要保留小数点后2位，先乘100, 再用Math.round, 再除100==
```js
let num = 1.23456;
alert( Math.round(num * 100) / 100 ); // 1.23456 -> 123.456 -> 123 -> 1.23
```
-  toFixed(n) 会自动补0
保留小数点后第N位，并返回一个*string*
```js
alert( 12.34.toFixed(1) ); // "12.3"
alert( 12.36.toFixed(1) ); // "12.4"
alert( 12.34.toFixed(5) ); // "12.34000", added zeroes to make exactly 5 digits
```
可以用`Number()` call, e.g write `+num.toFixed(5)`再把它变成数字

### Number overflow / Imprecise calculations
```js
alert( 1e500 ); // Infinity
alert( 0.1 + 0.2 == 0.3 ); // false  0.30000000000000004
alert( 0.1.toFixed(20) ); // 0.10000000000000000555

////// Solutioon
let sum = 0.1 + 0.2;
alert( +sum.toFixed(2) ); // 0.3

alert( (0.1 * 10 + 0.2 * 10) / 10 ); // 0.3
alert( (0.28 * 100 + 0.14 * 100) / 100); // 0.4200000000000001
alert( 9999999999999999 ); // shows 10000000000000000

```

### isFinite and isNaN

```js 
// 会先做num conversion
alert( isNaN(NaN) ); // true
alert( isNaN("str") ); // true
alert( NaN === NaN ); // false

// 会先做num conversion
alert( isFinite("15") ); // true
alert( isFinite("str") ); // false, because a special value: NaN
alert( isFinite(Infinity) ); // false, because a special value: Infinity
```

Sometimes isFinite is used to validate ==whether a string value is a regular number==:
```js
// will be true unless you enter Infinity, -Infinity or not a number
alert( isFinite(num) );
```

### parseInt and parseFloat
会试图解析直到fail
```js
alert( parseInt('100px') ); // 100
alert( parseFloat('12.5em') ); // 12.5

alert( parseInt('12.3') ); // 12, only the integer part is returned
alert( parseFloat('12.3.4') ); // 12.3, the second point stops the reading
alert( parseInt('a123') ); // NaN, the first symbol stops the process
```
### 其他Math
```js
// Returns a random number from 0 to 1 (not including 1).
alert( Math.random() ); // 0.1234567894322
alert( Math.max(3, 5, -10, 0, 1) ); // 5
alert( Math.min(1, 2) ); // 1
alert( Math.pow(2, 10) ); // 2 in power 10 = 1024
```

### 访问char charAt vs []
```js
let str = `Hello`;
alert( str[1000] ); // undefined
alert( str.charAt(1000) ); // '' (an empty string)
```

### 遍历char for...of
```js
for (let char of "Hello") {
  alert(char); // H,e,l,l,o (char becomes "H", then "e", then "l" etc)
}
```

### Array for queue and stack and dequeue

- Queue (First-In-First-Out)
1. push: append an element to the end O(1)
2. shift: get an element from the beginning O(n)
In practice we need it very often. For example, a queue of messages that need to be shown on-screen.



- Stack (Last-In-First-Out)
1. push: add an element to the end O(1)
2. pop: take an element from the end O(1)
A stack is usually illustrated as a pack of cards: new cards are added to the top or taken from the top.


- Dequeue (Double-ended queue)
They allow you to add/remove elements both to/from the beginning or the end.
1. push: add an element to the end O(1)
2. pop: take an element from the end O(1)
3. unshift: add the element to the beginning of the array O(n)
4. shift: get an element from the beginning O(n)

```js
let fruits = ["Apple"];

fruits.push("Orange", "Peach");
fruits.unshift("Pineapple", "Lemon");

// ["Pineapple", "Lemon", "Apple", "Orange", "Peach"]
alert( fruits );
```

### Array is also an object (don't misuse it)

```js
const array = [1,2,3];
array.fruit = "apple"; //[1,2,3 .... fruit: apple]
array[3]; // undefined
array.length; //3 length只统计greatest numeric index plus one
```

### Loop an array using for...of 
```js
for (let i=0; i<arr.length; i++){
  // works fastest, old-browser-compatible
} 

let fruits = ["Apple", "Orange", "Plum"];
for (let fruit of fruits) {
  alert( fruit ); // Apple, Orange, Pear
}

// BAD! 
// 1. iterates over all properties, not only the numeric ones.
// 2. 10-100 times slower
for (let key in arr) {
  alert( arr[key] ); // Apple, Orange, Pear
}

```

### Array length 
1. indicate the greatest numeric index plus one
2. if we decrease it, the array is truncated
3. the simplest way to clear the array is: arr.length = 0
```js
let fruits = [];
fruits[123] = "Apple";
fruits.length = 124;
fruits.pop(); //length 124
```

### new Array(2)

tricky feature: If new Array is called with a single argument which is a number, then it creates an array without items, but with the given length.

```js
let arr = new Array("Apple", "Pear", "etc");
let arr = new Array(2); // will it create an array of [undefined, undefined]
let matrix = [
  [1, 2, 3],
  [4, 5, 6],
  [7, 8, 9]
];
```

### 不要用==比较Array, 只能在loop里面一个个比较
- Two objects are equal == only if they’re references to the same object.
- If one of the arguments of == is an object, and the other one is a primitive, then the object gets converted to primitive
- With an exception of null and undefined that equal == each other and nothing else

- The strict comparison === is even simpler, as it doesn’t convert types


### Array's includes/indexOf/lastIndexOf
a very minor difference of includes is that it correctly handles NaN, unlike indexOf/lastIndexOf. 

```js
const arr = [NaN];
alert( arr.indexOf(NaN) ); // -1 (should be 0, but === equality doesn't work for NaN)
alert( arr.includes(NaN) );// true (correct)
```
### Array's method

- sort
默认是以string order 形式sort
```js
let arr = [ 1, 2, 15 ];
arr.sort();// 1, 15, 2 这里 “15” > "2"
```

自定义ordering function
```js
function compareNumeric(a, b) {
  if (a > b) return 1; // 返回正值，第一个element a 放在 b 后面
  if (a == b) return 0;
  if (a < b) return -1; // 返回负值，第一个element a 放在 b 前面
}

let arr = [ 1, 2, 15 ];
arr.sort(compareNumeric);
```
A cheat sheet of array methods:

To add/remove elements:

- push(...items) – adds items to the end,
- pop() – extracts an item from the end,
- shift() – extracts an item from the beginning,
– unshift(...items) – adds items to the beginning.
– splice(pos, deleteCount, ...items)* – at index pos deletes deleteCount elements and inserts items.
– slice(start, end) – creates a new array, copies elements from index start till end (not inclusive) into it.
– concat(...items) – returns a new array: copies all members of the current one and adds items to it. If any of items is an array, then its elements are taken.

To search among elements:

– indexOf/lastIndexOf(item, pos) – look for item starting from position pos, return the index or -1 if not found.
– includes(value) – returns true if the array has value, otherwise false.
– find/filter(func) – filter elements through the function, return first/all values that make it return true.
– findIndex is like find, but returns the index instead of a value.

To iterate over elements:

– forEach(func) – calls func for every element, does not return anything.
To transform the array:

– map(func) – creates a new array from results of calling func for every element.
– sort(func)* – sorts the array in-place, then returns it.
– reverse()* – reverses the array in-place, then returns it.
– split/join – convert a string to array and back.
– reduce/reduceRight(func, initial) – calculate a single value over the array by calling func for each element and passing an intermediate result between the calls.

==*Please note that methods sort, reverse and splice modify the array itself.==

Additionally:

- Array.isArray(arr) checks arr for being an array.
Please note that methods sort, reverse and splice modify the array itself.
- arr.some(fn)/arr.every(fn) check the array. These methods behave sort of like || and && operators.
- arr.fill(value, start, end) – fills the array with repeating value from index start to end
- arr.copyWithin(target, start, end) – copies its elements from position start till position end into itself, at position target (overwrites existing).
- arr.flat(depth)/arr.flatMap(fn) create a new flat array from a multidimensional array.


### 区分 Iterables 和 array-like
- iterable: object that implement the Symbol.iterator, can be used in for..of
- array-like: object have indexes and `length`, look like array, but lack the built-in methods of arrays.
e.g. String 同时是 iterable 且 array-like， 有numeric index 和 length
e.g. array-like 但是不是iterable 

```js 
let arrayLike = { // has indexes and length => array-like
  0: "Hello",
  1: "World",
  length: 2
};
```

### Map 和 Object 的区别
- Map is a collect of keyed data, just like Object. 
- Main difference: Mao allows keys of any type. e.g. Object 也可以作为key; But Oject can only have string type of keys

```js
let john = { name: "John" };
let visitsCountObj = {}; // try to use an object
visitsCountObj[ben] = 234; // try to use ben object as the key --> {[object Object]: 123}

let visitsCountMap = new Map();
visitsCountMap.set(john, 123);
```
- Map will preserve the insertion order. Unlike Object

|             | Map           | Object      |
| ----------- | -----------   | ----------- |
| syntax      | map.keys()    | Object.keys(obj)       |
| Returns     | iterable      | “real” Array        |

- Object.* methods ==return “real” array objects==, not just an iterable. That’s mainly for historical reasons.

#### Object.keys/values/entries ignore symbolic properties
Just like a for..in loop, these methods ignore properties that use Symbol(...) as keys.

Usually that’s convenient. But if we want symbolic keys too, then there’s a separate method Object.getOwnPropertySymbols that returns an array of only symbolic keys. Also, there exist a method Reflect.ownKeys(obj) that returns all keys.